1.
Box Office revenue prediction can affect decisions made by producers and investors.
Some techniques offer pre-release revenue estimate.

Insights
Features : MPAA,release date,movie genre

Release date maybe be imp., high-gross films in winter(christmas)

Goal
The goal of this project is to develop a
computational model for predicting box office revenues
based on public data for movies extracted from popular
online movie databases

Task:
Did the discrete revenue prediction task
Used Two Models:
i)Linear classifier with softmax function
ii)Like a two layer neural network with tanh activation function

I created a set of features meant to
encapsulate certain graphical properties extracted from
actor-actor, actor-movie, and movie-movie relationships.

Used Features : All relationships and metadata both

OMDB.py ---- use to collect data from OMDB

2.Various Features:

i)Genre,
ii)MPAA,
iii)Origin country of the movie, classified as U.S., English-speaking (but not U.S.),
or non-English-speaking,
iv)Production budget of the film,
v)Measure "Star Power" ,
The first is the number of actors or actresses appearing in the movie who were listed in Entertainment Weekly’s lists of
the 25 Best Actors and the 25 Best Actresses  of year.
The second is the number of actors or actresses appearing in the movie
who were among the top 20 actors and top 20 actresses in average box office gross
per movie in their careers, according to The Movie Times web site. ,

vi)Released Before a holiday weekend

vii)Movie was a sequel

viii)Number of screens for first weekend

ix)Gross revenue of first weekeend

x) Rating of movie

xi)interested in nominations and wins for movies that are still in release at the time
of the nominations.

Prior to Release
Genre v Revene (Less in comedy movies)
MPAA Rating vs Revenue
becomes more “mature” from G to PG to PG-13 to R, more movies are made, typically making less money

Less G and PG films (narrower market)
PG-13 and R films larger potential audience. 
PG-13 rating is quite desirable, as it can pull in both adults and children, and excludes virtually no one.

Model features : Genre, MPAA rating, Number of best actors, Number of top dollar actors, and whether or not the movie was a Summer release

After 1st Weekend Release

It is on the strength of the opening weekend of general release that all major
decisions pertaining to a film’s ultimate financial destiny are made.

Movie theater owners often make the decision to
keep a film running based on the strength of its opening weekend.

While the logged first weekend gross is highly correlated with logged total
domestic gross (r = .93), it is apparent that the strength of the relationship is different for
movies with lower grosses versus movies with higher grosses.

A model using Genre, Logged first weekend gross, and Logged number of
opening screens as predictors apparently fits the data very well.

Movies will be separated into two groups: those that open on 10 screens or less (116 films), and those
that open on more than 10 screens (192 films) (the number of opening screens was
unavailable for three films).

Ocsar Effect?
Nomination effect on both <10  and >10 ones.
Not on total Gross.


Foreign Gross?
Instead of using first U.K. weekend gross, we will
use total domestic (U.S.) gross as the “leading” predictor of U.K. gross

3.Neural Network:

Our study falls into the category of quantitative
models for model type classification, and into the category of before the initial release in timing of the forecast
classification.

Features Used : 
Independent variable name   No. of values  Possible values
MPAA Rating 5 G, PG, PG-13, R, NR
Competition 3 High, medium, low
Star value 3 High, medium, low
Genre 10 Sci-Fi, historic epic drama, modern
drama, politically related, thriller,
horror, comedy, cartoon, action,
documentary
Special effects 3 High, medium, low
Sequel 1 Yes, no
Number of
screens   1 Positive integer

We represented the number of screens a
movie is scheduled to be shown at its opening with a
continuous variable.

Since neural networks can handle a
mix of continuous and discrete values in both input and
output layers, we chose to use this variable as the only
continuous variable in the model. 


2 Hidden Layer Neural Network
In both
hidden layers, sigmoid transfer functions were utilized.

In our case, we have two different hit rates: the exact
(bingo) hit rate (only counts the correct classifications to the
exact same class) and the within 1 class (1-Away) hit rate.

Other Models:
Discriminant Analysis,Multiple Logistic Regression,CART

Senstivity Analysis
According to the sensitivity results, the major contributors
to the prediction of the success of a motion picture
are number of screens, high technical effects and high star
value.

4.Determinants of the revenue system

Study The literature Review
Used Data from ROtten Tomotaoes:
FBOXOFFICEi = B0 + B1DBOXOFFICEi + B2ACTIONi + B3CHILDRENi +
B4RESTRICTEDi + B5SEQUELi + B6CRITICi + B7AWARDi + B8BUDGETi + ui,

5.

6.

7.
https://www.academia.edu/7763644/Predicting_Movie_Success_Based_on_IMDB_Data

Calicut

8.




Animation,
Action,
Adventure,
Horror,
Family,
Drama,
Biography,
Comedy,
Sci-Fi,
Crime,
Mystery,
Documentary